That let's just go ahead and dive into things the first thing that we're going to be talking about is
variables.
So variables in college are very straightforward it's much much simpler than Java to create a variable
you just type var spacing give your variable a name.
So I'm going to say age and you just said it equal to whatever you want whether that's going to be an
end to string.
In this case I think it should be in it but that's it.
There's no semi-colon nothing else.
You got to do.
You don't have to say new or anything like that.
This is all you have to do to create a variable and if you want to update this over time say age is
now equal to 30.
That's totally fine as well.
So when you say var age this is a mutable variable if you want to make an immutable variable change
from var to vowel and then all of a sudden you'll see you again they're here because the saying Hey
Val cannot be reassigned meaning that once you said it the first time it is that for the rest of time.
All right.
So you've already seen with cotland if you're going to create a new variable or a vowel all you've got
to do is just set it equal to that type and then Tolland already knows.
OK.
Age for example is a int variable and if I try and you know set age equal to a string like this Hello
it's going to say no you can't do that.
And so something that's pretty special is that you know we don't have to explicitly say that age was
going to be an int variable column which just smart enough to infer saying hey if you passed an intern
there will is probably going to be an IT variable.
Now if you want to be explicit you can so after you say var aid you can do a colon and say capital int
to specify hey this thing should be in it.
So if I try and you know assign a string inside of here that's a no go.
But as long as an event you know it's going to work.
Now Same thing goes for strings if I want to say you know I'm going to make a variable called fav candy.
It's going to be equal to my favorite candy bar and I love Snickers.
All I've got to do is just set it like this so strings in Kollin is just the double quotes right like
this if you want to specify the type you can by saying capital string right there.
Also if you're wondering about whether this colon needs to be right next to the name or the space it
doesn't really matter.
I think typically you've seen more of this style that it's right after and then a space showing the
type.
But again probably not the biggest deal in the world.
So the last thing that I just want to cover here before we move on is with strings you can do some awesome
string interpellation in cotland that's so much easier than you could in Java.
So for example let's say I want to write a sentence about my age and my Candido I might say something
like I am 28 years old and I love Snicker's.
Right but you know rather than just always saying 28 in Snicker's I want to replace that with the value
that's inside of these variables Well string interpellation in cotland Catlin's very simple.
All you do is do a dollar sign and then you just provide the variable that you want there.
So in this case age just like that.
And if I want to get rid of Snicker's for example and do whatever inside is inside a fav candy I can
do my dollar sign and then just say fav candy and that's it.
So go ahead and make sure that this is what we were hoping for.
Let's go ahead and do a print line of this and we'll go ahead and run our code here.
So you should see I am 0 years old and I love snicker I guess I should have put an s on that but this
will prove that the code that we wrote here is totally valid.
OK.
So my first challenge to you which is a very very simple challenge and I guess maybe I should have covered
this to print stuff in cotland you just say print line you can also do just a straight up print like
this but obviously you don't get the return line with that so I'm a big fan of print line but my challenge
for you is very simple.
I want you to do is to create a new variable called name and set it equal to your name.
OK.
So like I said Pretty simple example but I just want to kind of get you in the flow of how I'm going
to be doing these challenges for you so go ahead.
Hit pause on the video now and go do that.
OK so hopefully that went well for you.
Like I said amazingly simple challenge that I had for you.
All you had to do is create a variable named a name instead of equal to your name.
And boom there it is.
I just finished that game.
So there it is we already completed what was two lectures before in the column for beginners.
We're going to keep moving on and talk about math and comments in the next one.